# Insights

## Heavy overlap

### Maximum latency

The maximum latency for engine v2 wins against v1. The hypothesis is as follows:
1. In `v1`, heavy overlap causes many delete and allocate in v1, which causes a lot of cache misses when pointer chasing. 
2. In `v2`, the priority queue size will not explode compared to _all sell_ or _all buy_. This is because a lot of pop occurs and thus maintaining the size to not explode. As a consequence, memory allocation when vector re-allocate is not that expensive. 
3. In `v3`, it suffers from both 1 and 2 but in the middle.  
   - It suffers from cache miss due to pointer chasing because when the price is concentrated on some certain prices. This is because of the deque internal implementation. Within the same chunks, it is cache friendly. However, inter-chunks wise, it is not cache friendly because the chunks are allocated at the heap memory. This is not as bad as `v1` though.   
   -  It also suffer from the allocation cost, but it is not as bad as priority queue. When the number of `Order` exceeds the chunk's size, the deque internal will need to allocate some memory for the other chunk. This can be a bottleneck as well. 

### `p95` and `p99` latency

| Engine | Single matching logic complexity | Number of bytes for comparison |
|---:|---|---|
| `v1` | $1 \times O(\log N)$ on partial match, $2 \times O(\log N)$ on exact match | 8, `sizeof(Order*)` | 
| `v2` | $3 \times O(\log N)$ on partial match, $2 \times O(\log N)$ on exact match | 24, `sizeof(Order)` | 
| `v3` | $O(\log P)$ for map access + $O(1)$ amortized for deque operation | 8, `sizeof(unsigned long long)` | 

The $3 \times O(\log N) $ cannot be optimized, as priority queue does not allow changing top value directly (it returns `const Order`). 

From the matching logic complexity, complexity of `v3` < complexity of `v1` < complexity of `v2`, which match the latency measurement. 

## No match (all buy or all sell)

When no match occurs, the latency observed will mainly comes from the data structure memory allocation and reallocation. 

### Maximum latency 

The maximum latency for `v2` skyrocketed. The hypothesis of this is because the priority queue size explode. Each priority queue entry consists of 24 bytes; compared to `v1`, which only save pointers (8 byte). So, reallocation becomes very expensive. 

Comparing this to `v3`, reallocation happens at the chunks level. Thus, it is much less expensive. 

## Wide range 

In heavy overlap, `v3` chunks allocation happens much more often because the price is concentrated on the top. Whereas, in wide range, `v3` chunks allocation does not happen as often as in heavy overlap because the price is more wide spreaded. 

As a consequence, the throughput and the latency performance far outweigh `v1` and `v2`. 